Project Description
After a debt has been legally declared "uncollectable" by a bank, the account is
considered to be "charged-off." But that doesn't mean the bank simply walks away
from the debt. They still want to collect some of the money they are owed.
In this project, we will look at a situation where a bank assigned delinquent
customers to different recovery strategies based on the expected amount the bank
believed it would be able to recover from the customer.
Now assigning costumers to higher recovery strategies require some operational
costs on the bank side. Therefore, the goal for us is to determine in this non-random
assignment whether the incremental amount the bank earns(recovered amount)
exceeded the additional cost of assigning customers to a higher recovery strategy.
The bank has implemented different recovery strategies at different thresholds
($1000, $2000, $3000 and $5000) where the greater the Expected Recovery
Amount, the more effort the bank puts into contacting the customer.
● Level 0: Expected recovery amounts >$0 and <=$1000
● Level 1: Expected recovery amounts >$1000 and <=$2000
The threshold of $1000 separates Level 0 from Level 1
We found that there is no major jump in the average customer age just above and
just below the $1000 threshold by doing a ​Kruskal-Wallis test​(statistical test) along
with analyzing it with ​Exploratory Data Analysis​. We did it to make sure that the
expected recovery amount does not vary significantly with age just below and
above the threshold level.
Then, the next step is examining the relationship between the actual recovery
amount and the expected recovery amount, to develop a better visual.
We have used the Scatter plot and ​Regression discontinuity model ​in this project
because it is an intuitive and useful analysis method in any situation of a threshold
assignment. Here, the regression coefficient for the true threshold measures the
size of the discontinuity for customers just above and just below the threshold.
If the higher recovery strategy helped recover more money, then the regression
coefficient of the true threshold will be greater than zero. If the higher recovery strategy did not help recover more money, then the regression coefficient will not
be statistically significant.

In this project we found that the regression coefficient for the true threshold was
statistically significant with an estimated impact of around $278. This is much larger
than the $50 per customer needed to run this higher recovery strategy.
the incremental recovery amount at the higher recovery strategy is much greater
than the $50 per customer it costs for the higher recovery strategy. So we conclude
that the higher recovery strategy is worth the extra cost of $50 per customer.